---
layout: post
title:  "Differences between the DNS records"
date: 2014-03-29 15:18:40
tags: dns cname
category: blog
---

`A`, `CNAME`, `ALIAS` and `URL` records are all possible solutions to point a host name to your site. However, they have some small differences that affect how the client will reach your site.

Before going further into the details, it’s important to know that `A` and `CNAME` records are standard DNS records, whilst `ALIAS` and `URL` records are _custom DNS_ records provided by [_DNSimple_](http://support.dnsimple.com/).

###Understanding the differences

* The `A` record maps a name to one or more IP addresses, when the IP are known and stable.
* The `CNAME` record maps a name to another name. It should only be used when there are no other records on that name.
* The `ALIAS` record maps a name to another name, but in turns it can coexist with other records on that name.
* The `URL` record redirects the name to the target name using the HTTP 301 status code.
Some important rules to keep in mind:



###The general rule is:
Understanding the difference between the A name and the CNAME records will help you to decide which one to use.

* Use an `A` record if you manage what IP addresses are assigned to a particular machine or if the IP are fixed (this is the most common case)
* Use a `CNAME` record if you want to alias a name to another name, and you don’t need (such as other records (such as MX records for emails) for the same name
* Use an `ALIAS` record if you are trying to alias the root domain (apex zone) or if you need other records for the same name
* Use the `URL` record if you want the name to redirect (change address) instead of resolving to a destination.

`You should never use a CNAME record for your root domain name (i.e. example.com).`

source : [dnsimple](http://support.dnsimple.com/articles/differences-between-a-cname-alias-url/)